“Conductive boron-doped diamond (BDD) thin films have been known to exhibit superior electrochemical properties, such as a wide potential window and a low background current, as well as other useful attributes, e.g., extreme hardness, heat resistance and chemical inertness [1], [2], [3]. Owing to such outstanding properties, BDD has been recognized as a promising electrode material, especially for electrolysis with high efficiency and long-term durability [4], [5] and for electroanalysis with high sensitivity and high stability [6], [7], [8], [9]. Recently, in order to further functionalize BDD, many kinds of surface modification have been attempted, including dry and wet processes, such as thermal, chemical, photochemical and electrochemical treatments [10]. Plasma etching has been known to be an effective method of treatment for the modification of diamond surfaces. In general, plasma treatments can be conducted under precisely controlled conditions, such as treatment time, plasma power, pressure, etc., allowing for high reproducibility of results. Surface modification of diamond with plasma etching does not require long treatment time. For instance, an as-grown hydrogen-terminated CVD diamond surface could be modified to the oxygen-terminated form by exposure to an oxygen plasma for only 1 min [11]. Another advantage of plasma treatment is that various types of gas, from inert argon to halogens, can be applied in surface treatment. H2, O2 and CF4 [12], [13], [14], [15] plasma treatments have been known to be effective to obtain hydrogen-, oxygen- and fluorine-terminated diamond surfaces. Such resulting surfaces were found to exhibit different surface properties including wettability, conductivity, chemical and electrochemical properties. In the present study, as-grown hydrogen-terminated BDD surfaces were treated with a short-duration plasma etching using CF4, Cl2, Ar and CH4 under similar conditions, and the characterization of the modified surfaces was studied by Raman spectroscopy, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and water contact angle measurements. In addition, electrochemical kinetics of several redox species at the modified surfaces was studied comparatively with cyclic voltammetry (CV) and electrochemical impedance measurements. Electrochemical stability of chlorine- and fluorine-terminated BDD surfaces against anodic treatment was also compared.” Source: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2006.11.001

“Nitrate is considered a pollutant of water resources, and its concentration increase has become a worldwide problem due to the extensive use of nitrogen fertilizers and inappropriate treatment of waste water from industrial sites [1]. Considering different methodologies to detect and to destruct nitrate ions [2], its reduction is one of the ways for its removal from polluted waters. So, the electrochemical process appears as an alternative technique with high efficiency and low cost. It is noteworthy that the efficiency and selectivity of electrochemical method are dependent on many factors. For example, electrode material used as a sensor. In this sense, BDD electrodes have singular electrochemical properties, such as, wide potential window, low background current and extreme physical and chemical stability. So, they have appeared as a solid material for application in electroanalysis, particularly, for nitrate electrochemical reduction [3], [4]. The electrochemical behavior of BDD may be improved from the surface modification with deposition of nanoparticle metals, which are responsible to increase electrocatalytic activity and, consequently, increasing the sensitivity and selectivity of the process. To reduce the nitrate ion, several metals have been used like Pb, Ni, Fe [5], [6], [7], Cu [8], Pt [9], Zn [10], Ru [11], Pd [12]. Among many tested metals, the copper exhibits the best electrocatalytic activity considering the kinetics for the nitrate reduction process. Large efforts have been made in depositing copper nanoparticle on BDD surface. Several copper coating processes have been developed, such as, photoelectrodeposition [13], sputtering [14], electrodeposition [15], PVD [16] wetness technique [17] and electroless deposition [18]. Taking into account the modified BDD electrodes the electrochemical deposition offers good filling capability, low cost and fast alternative process to produce copper nanoparticle modified electrode. Welch et al. [19] have studied the in situ Cu nanoparticle deposition at diamond electrode for the nitrate detection due to the weak interfacial contact between copper and the carbon contributing to a poor adherence of copper on diamond surface that turns it inactive when an ex situ process is used. Recently, in order to change the electrochemical behavior of BDD to increase copper–carbon adherence, many kinds of surface modification have been attempted, including thermal, chemical, photochemical and electrochemical treatment [20]. Plasma etching has been known to be an effective method of treatment to be able to functionalize diamond surface. In general, plasma treatments have some advantages over the others techniques commonly used. Plasma can be conducted under controlled treatment time, plasma power and pressure. In addition, it requires short treatment time and can be applied using different gas types to obtain effective hydrogen-, oxygen-, and fluorine-terminated diamond surface [21], [22]. We have already observed in previous work that the deposition and consolidation of Cu nanoparticles in BDD electrode are strongly affected by its surface termination of hydrogen or oxygen [23]. These BDD terminations also affect the electron transfer behavior between diamond electrode and electrolyte. In this context, the aim of this paper is to analyze the influence of hydrogen and oxygen plasma pre-treatments on BDD surface to improve the Cu nanoparticle deposition and its consolidation. Besides, the dependence of Cu nanoparticle consolidation was confirmed by the results’ reproducibility when these modified BDD electrodes were applied to nitrate reduction, at different solution pH. To our knowledge, there is no work in the literature that provides the Cu nanoparticle consolidation on diamond surface using plasma pre-treatment.” Source: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2011.07.006

“Ionic liquids are essentially molten salts at room temperature (RTILs). They are an interesting class of liquids offering advantages over organic electrolyte solutions such as low vapor pressure, nonflammability, electrochemical and chemical stability, and ionic conductivity. (1−5) RTILs are composed generally of a large asymmetric organic cation and a small symmetric inorganic anion. They are totally ionic with no solvent separating the ions. Coulombic interactions are the dominant force between the ions. With no dielectric solvent, the constituent ions do not exist as simple spherical charges. (6) Rather, the ions exist as ion pairs. From a fundamental electrochemical perspective, the use of RTILs allows one to investigate electron-transfer kinetics and redox reaction mechanisms of soluble redox systems in the absence of a dielectric solvent. Indeed, electron-transfer reactions in an RTIL will necessarily proceed differently than in a polar solvent/electrolyte system. The short- and long-range organizations of the RTIL ions at an electrified interface, as well as their unique arrangement around a redox molecule, make the electrochemical properties of these novel media interesting to study. (6) The chemical and electrochemical stability of RTILs leads to a large voltammetric working potential window of 4–6 V, depending on the RTIL cation and anion. Electrochemical reactions in RTILs will be influenced by the arrangement of the ions at the electrified interface between the RTIL and the solid surface, and the RTIL’s physicochemical properties (e.g., electrical conductivity and viscosity). Boron-doped diamond (BDD films, optically transparent electrodes, powders, etc.) possesses a number of advantageous properties for electrochemical measurements. (7−12) These electrodes are generally hydrogen-terminated when deposited by chemical vapor deposition (CVD) using a methane/hydrogen source gas mixture. (7−15) However, the surface can be easily converted to an oxygen termination by exposing the film to thermal oxidation, an O2 radio-frequency (RF) plasma, and electrochemical oxidation or by boiling in strong acids. (14−18) The background voltammetric current and potential-dependent capacitance of BDD electrodes are influenced by the film microstructure and bulk electronic properties. The latter arises from the substitutional-inserted boron atoms from doping (7−12) and the hydrogen incorporation. (19,20) Two other factors that can influence the background voltammetric current and capacitance of BDD electrodes are the fraction of sp2 carbon impurity exposed (21−24) and the surface chemistry, both of which will influence the degree of wetting by an electrolyte solution. (25,26) The wetting of an electrolyte solution can be assessed through contact angle measurements, for example. A smaller contact angle corresponds to a higher degree of surface wetting by a liquid. Surface modification of carbon electrodes using RF plasma treatment is an effective way of introducing functional groups to modulate the wettability and electrochemical properties. (27−31) O2 plasma treatment of carbon electrodes often causes morphological damage, as well as surface chemistry changes. (27−31) Roughening and carbon corrosion can occur due to gasification reactions (CO and CO2 production) mediated by atomic oxygen produced in the plasma. Such deleterious effects can be mitigated by controlling treatment parameters such as plasma power, source gas pressure, and treatment time. (31) There has been limited work published so far on the electrochemical behavior of BDD electrodes in RTILs. For example, Zhao et al. reported on the working potential window, background voltammetric current magnitude, and cyclic voltammetric behavior of ferrocene and cobaltocenium hexafluorophosphate at BDD, glassy carbon, Pt, and Au electrodes in multiple protic ionic liquids. (32) The authors also discussed the importance of water impurity and its effect on background current, potential window, and diffusional mass transport of the redox systems. Cannes et al. reported on the capacitance of BDD, glassy carbon, and carbon nitride electrodes in 1-butyl-3-methylimidazolium bis(trifluoromethyl sulfonyl)imide [BMIM][Tf2N]. (33) The authors observed variations in the double-layer capacitance as a function of potential. Curves were observed to be camel-shaped for all electrode materials at the elevated temperatures. Ernst et al. reported on the reduction of dissolved O2 at BDD and glassy carbon electrodes in 1-ethyl-3-methylimidazolium bis (trifluoromethyl sulfonyl)imide [BMIM][Tf2N]. (34) The reduction reaction involved the 1e– reduction to the superoxide radical anion. More sluggish electron-transfer kinetics were observed on BDD, as compared to those on glassy carbon. The sluggish kinetics was attributed to a lower density of electronic states in BDD. Lucio et al. reported on the double-layer capacitance of BDD electrodes in several RTILs, including [BMIM][BF4] and [BMIM][PF6]. (35) The room-temperature capacitance values ranged from 4 to 8 μF cm–2 over the potential range probed in both RTILs. Li et al. used Fourier transformed large-amplitude alternating current voltammetry to measure the heterogeneous electron-transfer rate constant for the ferrocene/ferrocenium redox couple in [BMIM][PF6] on BDD surfaces and cut edges rich in sp2 carbon. (24)ko values on the BDD surface were 1.5 × 10–3 cm s–1. Faster kinetics was observed on the sp2-carbon-rich sites. The authors noted that the spatial nonuniformity in electrode active sites is more observable in RTILs due to the slower diffusional time scale (i.e., small depletion layer thickness). Another reported BDD electrode work with RTILs includes the determination of the heterogeneous electron-transfer rate constants for ferrocene and ferrocene carboxylic acid (FCA) in [BMIM][BF4]. (36) In this paper, results are reported indicating how the boron-doped nanocrystalline diamond thin-film electrode surface chemistry (H vs O) affects the wettability, background voltammetric current, working potential window, and potential-dependent capacitance in two purified RTILs: 1-butyl-3-methylimidazolium hexafluorophosphate, [BMIM][PF6], and 1-hexyl-3-methylimidazolium hexafluorophosphate, [HMIM][PF6]. Comparison measurements were performed in an aqueous electrolyte, 0.5 mol L–1 H2SO4. Cyclic voltammetry and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) were used to study current density–potential (j–E) and capacitance–potential (C–E) trends. The physical properties of the two RTILs used are given in Table 1.” Source: https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.langmuir.0c00294

“The rapid development of different techniques for the synthesis of diamond 1 has attracted the interest of many researchers, more and more applications being suggested for this outstanding material. In most cases, the synthesis is focused on the formation of a thin film, to supply the supporting material with otherwise unattainable physical properties. It is well-known that diamond is the hardest material and has a great chemical inertness; nevertheless, the modification of the outer surface of the diamond film may open new possibilities, also in terms of an increased stability. In this context, fluorine appears to be a promising modifier, 2 the stability and the inertness of some perfluorinated compounds (Teflon, Kalrez) having already found industrial applications. To form such a monolayer, different approaches can be followed, as summarized in the Smentkowski and Yates' patent,2 although with different results (in terms of fluorine coverage). Dealing with a conducting diamond film, modifications of the outer surface are expected to change also the electrochemical properties of the device under investigation. Angus and co-workers 3 carried out voltammetry and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) analysis to show that the fluorination of the diamond surface is able to “passivate” the graphitic impurities that are present at the grain borders of polycrystalline diamond films. The investigation was carried out in 0.5 M sulfuric acid and only a few cyclic voltametry (CV) curves were recorded. The present work is thus devoted to a deeper investigation of the electrochemical properties of fluorinated diamond thin films. The use of different redox couples is common practice for the characterization of an electrode material:  in a previous work, we used both the iron(III)/iron(II) and the ferri/ferro cyanide redox equilibria to describe the electrochemical properties of highly boron-doped (BDD) electrodes (see ref 4 and references therein). The obtained results showed that high-quality BDD specimens behave like the usual (oxide-free) noble-metal electrodes, if care is devoted to the preparation of solutions, to avoid the presence of species which adsorb onto the electrode surface or are able to catalyze the electron-transfer reaction. Experiments have been carried out making use of fluorinated BDD electrodes, synthesized at CSEM (Neuchâtel, Switzerland) by plasma-treating the pristine BDD samples in a CF4 atmosphere.” Source: https://doi.org/10.1021/jp0274280

“Nano-crystalline diamond has many unique physical and chemical properties. It possesses wide band gap, high resistivity, high electron and hole mobility, extraordinary chemical stability and wide optical transparency. Several potential applications in electronics, optics and electrochemistry attract widespread attention of experts [1]–[3]. For the hydrogen is a very important assistant gas in the boron-doped diamond (BDD) deposition by chemical vapor deposition (CVD) method, it is inevitable that the as-deposited diamond surfaces are hydrogen-terminated. These surfaces, however, can be oxidized while being boiled in the strong acid, treated by oxygen plasma or induced by anodic oxidation [4]–[6]. Hydrogenated and oxygenated diamond surfaces exhibit quite different electrical conductivity. The hydrogenated diamond has a p-type surface conductivity [7], [8]. As the diamond surface becomes oxygen-terminated, the high surface conductivity layer disappears [9], [10]. However, the mechanism of surface conductivity for the hydrogenated and oxygenated diamond surfaces remains controversial [11]–[13]. To elucidate the conductivity mechanism of surface-modified diamond films, it is important to clarify their electronic structures. In this paper, nano-crystalline BDD films have been grown by hot-filament chemical vapor deposition process. By hydrogen-plasma treatment and boiling in strong acids, the hydrogen-terminated and oxygen-terminated nano-crystalline diamond surfaces have been prepared, respectively. Surface morphologies and characteristics of the two surface-terminated nano-crystalline BDD films have been measured by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and Raman spectroscopy. Using the scanning probe spectroscopy (SPM), the spectroscopy curves of tunneling current versus voltage (I-V) have been investigated. C 1s core-level spectra and surface valence band spectra have been analyzed by means of the X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS).” Source: https://doi.org/10.1109/NEMS.2006.334863 


“Highly boron-doped diamond (BDD) thin films prepared by the microwave plasma chemical vapor deposition (CVD) method have been widely studied and have attracted considerable attention as electrodes with many excellent properties.1 2 3 4 5 In general, as-deposited surfaces of BDD films are recognized to be hydrogen terminated. On the other hand, the electrochemical properties of oxygen terminated BDD films have also been studied and compared to those of hydrogen terminated ones. Oxygen-containing surface functional groups introduced by oxygen anealing of undoped diamond powders were characterized in detail by Ando et al.6 with infrared spectroscopy. However, in the case of BDD, the identification of surface functional groups is still in progress. Also, the relationship between surface oxidation methods and the coverages of various surface functional groups has not yet been fully revealed, as well as the effects of these surface groups on the electrochemical reactivity of redox species. In the present study, oxygen-containing functional groups were introduced onto the BDD surface by means of either oxygen plasma treatment7 8 or anodic polarization treatment.8 9 It is expected that carbonyl groups   and ether groups   are generated on the BDD(100) surface by those surface oxidation methods.6 We have recently demonstrated the presence of carbonyl groups on oxygen terminated BDD surfaces by means of selective modification with dinitrophenylhydrazine (DNPH).10 We also have reported that the surface coverage of the carbonyl groups depends on the surface oxidation methods.10 In contrast, carbonyl groups cannot be easily accommodated on the (111) surface, and thus, it is presumed that most of the functional groups on this surface are hydroxyls. In the present study, assuming the existence of hydroxyl groups on oxygen terminated BDD surfaces, we have sought to modify them chemically with a silane coupling agent, (3-aminopropyl)triethoxysilane (APTES), that is not reactive with carbonyl, carboxyl, or ether groups. The existence of surface hydroxyl groups was confirmed by comparing electrochemical behavior and the water contact angle, and the elemental distribution was measured by means of X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) before and after the modification. The information thus obtained in the present work is important not only for examining the correlation between the surface chemical structure and the electrochemical characteristics of oxygen terminated BDD electrodes, but also for providing a guide to developing electrochemical devices such as electrochemical sensors, and by introducing many kinds of functional groups and molecules like enzymes onto BDD surfaces by chemical modification.” Source: https://doi.org/10.1149/1.1346556 

“Diamond is an interesting material due to its outstanding technological properties such as high hardness, large thermal conductivity, chemical inertness, and low friction.1 In addition, heavily boron-doped diamond (BDD) films are reported to acquire reasonable electrochemical conductivity and they are used as electrodes in electrochemistry.2 Synthetic BDD thin-film electrodes deposited on p-silicon exhibit a wide working potential window in aqueous electrolytes, low and stable voltammetric background current, low and weak adsorption of polar molecules, and high stability under strongly oxidizing conditions.3 4 For these reasons, the electrochemical behavior of such electrodes has been studied with the goal of developing applications in electrosynthesis,5 6 recovery of metals,7 incineration of organic compounds,8 9 10 11 12 and analytical chemistry for quantitative determination.13 14 15 Recently, increasing interest has arisen in the effect of adding fluorine to diamond film because it permits one to obtain low internal stress,16 best performance in terms of friction and wear resistance,17 low dielectric constant,18 and high hydrophobicity of the surface.19 However only a few studies have been made on the influence of fluorine incorporation on the electrochemical behavior of boron-doped diamond electrodes.20 In this paper the influence of plasma fluorination on the physical and electrochemical properties of a polycrystalline BDD electrode was studied by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and cyclic voltammetry in acidic solution. In addition, the use of fluorinated boron-doped diamond (F-BDD) electrodes for nickel and nitrate reduction was reported.” Source: https://doi.org/10.1149/1.1592914 

“Boron-doped diamond (BDD) exhibits excellent electrode properties such as wide potential window, low background current, and high stability in aqueous solutions due to the intrinsic inertness and durability of diamond. Therefore, BDD electrodes have been utilized for various electrochemical applications including sensors,1 wastewater treatments,2 and CO2 reduction.3 The electrochemical properties of BDD are commonly affected by surface termination, boron-doping level, and sp2-bonded carbon impurities.4,5 In particular, surface termination of BDD strongly affects the electrochemical reactivity, and it can be easily converted after fabricating diamond films. The surface of BDD synthesized by the chemical vapor deposition (CVD) method is terminated by hydrogen due to preparation under a hydrogen atmosphere, while it can be converted to oxygen termination covered with oxygen functional groups by means of various oxidation treatments.6–10 Conversely, oxygen termination can be restored to hydrogen termination by applying reduction treatments.5,11,12 These two surface terminations induce respective electrochemical properties such as the electron transfer rates of redox reactions and the flat band potentials of BDD.4,13–18 On the other hand, functional molecules can be modified on the BDD surface by photochemical grafting, silanization, esterification, and electroreduction of diazonium salts.19 Such surface modification has the ability to improve electrochemical reactivities and to stabilize the surface while maintaining the intrinsic characteristics of BDD. For example, when positively-charged allyltriethylammonium bromide (ATAB) is photochemically grafted on BDD, the detection sensitivity of oxalic acid improves to twice that of hydrogen-terminated BDD.20 In addition, the repeatability of oxalic acid detection on ATAB-modified BDD is superior to that of the hydrogen-terminated one.20 Among a great number of surface modifications of BDD reported so far, fluorination has especially attracted interest. This is because fluorine-terminated diamond exhibits unique surface properties such as high hydrophobicity and a low coefficient of friction.21 In addition, it is expected that small intermolecular forces of surface C–F bonds inhibit the adsorption of some compounds on BDD. To date, fluorination of BDD has been achieved by plasma treatment,22–28 silane coupling,29,30 esterification,31 electrochemical oxidation of perfluorocarboxylic acid,30,32–34etc., and many researchers have reported that fluorination of BDD significantly lowers electron transfer rates of redox reactions and extends the potential window in the cathodic region. Although many reports have investigated the electrochemical reactivities of fluorinated BDD against various redox species as mentioned above, few discussed the detailed factors of specific characteristics produced by fluorination based on systematic measurements and theoretical calculations. In other words, it has not been elucidated why fluorinated BDD exhibits such specific electrochemical properties. From these backgrounds, in this article, fluorine-terminated BDD was fabricated by plasma treatment and its electrochemical properties were understood by cyclic voltammetry (CV) measurements in aqueous solutions containing K3[Fe(CN)6], [Ru(NH3)6]Cl3, and H2SO4. In addition, the reasons why fluorination affected the electrochemical properties of BDD were investigated by comparing the CVs of dopamine (DA), 4-ethylcatechol (EC), and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC). These compounds have catechol structures in common, but different charged functional groups. Together with these experiments, we have calculated the interfacial structures and electronic states of hydrogenated, oxygenated, and fluorinated (111) BDD electrodes.” Source: https://doi.org/10.1039/c8cp07402j 




